Import Cluster Refactor (#1356)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/05-imported-clusters/10-cluster-import.md

# Overview

When importing a cluster into Palette, you can select the mode you want Palette to use when managing the cluster. You can choose between read-only mode or select full-permissions. Refer to the [Imported Clusters](/clusters/imported-clusters#importmodes) reference page to learn more about each mode.

Select the mode you want to use when importing a cluster into Palette.

<br />

<Tabs>
<Tabs.TabPane tab="Full Permission Mode" key="full-permission-mod">

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes version >= 1.19.X

- Ensure your environment has network access to Palette SaaS or your self-hosted Palette instance.

- Ensure [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/) is installed and available in your local workstation.

- Access to your cluster environment through kubectl. 

## Import a Cluster

1. Log in to [Palette](https://spectrocloud.com).

2. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters**.

3. Click on **Add New Cluster** and select **Import Cluster** in the pop-up box.

4. Fill out the required information and make the proper selections:
   * Cluster Name - The name of the cluster you want to import.

>    * Cloud Type - Select the infrastructure environment your cluster resides in. Select **Generic** if the environment list doesn't contain your specific environment but be aware of the limitations with generic clusters.

Reviewer: @ritawatson it's mentioned in the intro.

   <br />

   ![A view of the cluster details page with the sidebar instructions box](/clusters_imported-clusters_full-permissions-instructions.png)

   <br />

7. We recommend you install the metrics server so that Palette can expose and provide you with information about the cluster. Installing the metrics server is not required but is needed for Palette to expose cluster metrics. Open a terminal session and issue the commands below against the Kubernetes cluster you want to import if you want to enable the metrics server.

   <br />

   ```shell
   helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami && \
   helm install my-release bitnami/metrics-server
   ```

8. To install the Palette agent, issue the command displayed in the cluster details page **Install the agent** section against the Kubernetes cluster you want to import. The command is customized for your cluster as it contains the assigned cluster ID. Below is an example output of the install command.

   <br />

   ```shell hideClipboard

>    kubectl apply -f https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/spectroclusters/6491d4a94c39ad82d3cc30ae/import/manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl apply --file https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/spectroclusters/6491d4a94c39ad82d3cc30ae/import/manifest
```

   ```

> 

Reviewer: Nice cath 😄

   <br />

   ![A view of the cluster details page with the sidebar instructions box](/clusters_imported-clusters_read-only-instructions.png)

   <br />

7. We recommend you install the metrics server so that Palette can expose and provide you with information about the cluster. Installing the metrics server is not required but is needed for Palette to expose cluster metrics. Open a terminal session and issue the commands below against the Kubernetes cluster you want to import if you want to enable the metrics server.

   <br />

   ```shell
   helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami && \
   helm install my-release bitnami/metrics-server

8. To install the Palette agent, issue the command displayed in the cluster details page  **Install the** read-only agent** section against the Kubernetes cluster you want to import. The command is customized for your cluster as it contains the assigned cluster ID. Below is an example output of the install command.

   <br />

   ```shell hideClipboard

>    kubectl apply -f https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/spectroclusters/6491d4a94c39ad82d3cc30ae/import/manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   kubectl apply --file https://api.spectrocloud.com/v1/spectroclusters/6491d4a94c39ad82d3cc30ae/import/manifest
```

   ```

   Output
   ```shell hideClipboard
   namespace/cluster-6491d4a94c39ad82d3cc30ae created
   serviceaccount/cluster-management-agent created
   clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/read-only-mode created
   clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/read-only-mode created
   configmap/log-parser-config created
   configmap/upgrade-info-8kfc2m8mt8 created
   configmap/version-info-kbk5hk992f created
   secret/spectro-image-pull-secret created
   priorityclass.scheduling.k8s.io/spectro-cluster-critical created
   deployment.apps/cluster-management-agent-lite created
   configmap/cluster-info created
   configmap/hubble-info created
   secret/hubble-secrets created
   ```

> 9. Once the Palette agent completes the initialization, the side view drawer on the right will disappear, and your cluster will transition to a status of **Running** after a few moments.

Reviewer 2: When the Palette agent completes initializing, the cluster import procedures at right will disappear, and your cluster will transition to **Running** status within a few minutes.

   <br />

   ![A view of an imported cluster's details page](/clusters_imported-clusters_read-only.png)

   <br />

> You now have a cluster imported into Palette in read-only mode. Keep in mind that a cluster imported in read-only mode has limited capabilities. You can migrate to Full-Permissions at any time by clicking on the **Migrate To Full Permissions**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have imported a cluster into Palette in read-only mode. Keep in mind that a cluster imported in read-only mode has limited capabilities. You can migrate to full permissions anytime by clicking **Migrate To Full Permissions**.
```
